Do you think the world's finally ready
to face the truth about metabolism and
cancer?
>> We have about 1,700 people a day dying
from cancer, which comes to about 70 an
hour. They spend more time on how the
drug is going to kill you, yet they show
somebody riding the bicycle and swimming
or kayak. Why don't they show you the
guy sitting on the toilet for for 6
hours a day? It's just like they're
going to blow out your kidneys and your
liver. Oh, I'm a quack or something like
this. I'm not the one radiating and
poisoning people to make them healthy.
So cancer is one singular disease fact
that the system does not want to hear
because
>> you can only block the sun with your
thumb for so long.
>> So I'm just telling people brace
yourselves. The paradigm change is
coming.
>> Welcome to the Born to Heal podcast. I'm
Dr. Katie Deming, your host. And on this
show we explore holistic practices for
cancer prevention and healing. Let's
welcome Professor Seaff Freed back to
the show.
>> Well, thank you Dr. Deming. It's very
nice to be back and have another
conversation with you. Thank you.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm very excited for this. So,
you know, I mean, just to for those
listeners who maybe haven't listened to
our first EP episode, I'd love to just
kind of jump in talking about metabolic
disease and you know, you have
challenged one of the most entrenched
ideas in medicine that cancer is not a
genetic disease. And after decades of
resistance to this, do you think the
world's finally ready to face the truth
about truth about metabolism and cancer?
>> Well, we would like to think that's the
case, but the it's the resistance is is
not against the science. This is what
people have to realize. The resistance
is not uh based on on incorrect science
or incomplete science. the the
resistance is based more on a change to
the status quo. Um, and ever whenever
you have a paradigm change, it's always
met with uh resistance in the form of of
of disregard or you know ignor ignore it
uh first. Just don't get it. Don't if
you start talking about it, you might
make it worse. So don't talk about it.
What we have going for us is a current
system that is terribly broken and
therefore there will be a momentum to
change a very broken system. Uh right
now as I say every year the n the
American Cancer Society publishes their
prospectus on how many people are going
to die from cancer and this year they're
expecting over uh 618,000
people uh which which comes to uh about
1,700
per day. So in the United States in
hospitals throughout the country we have
about one 1700 people a day dying from
cancer which comes to about 70 an hour
and and of course this is scattered
throughout the entire uh United States
and of course people are dying all over
the world from cancer in many all major
countries and we're not making any major
progress
uh and this is the tragedy and the only
major progress we have made in the
United States was the anti-smoking
campaign and this should be an eye
openener because there's no major new
drugs that have come along that have
really have major impact on reducing uh
cancer deaths and and every year it gets
worse and worse. It's not better. And
yet we have a clear plan for reducing
death and suffering uh based on a new
understanding of what cancer is. And
it's essentially being ignored and not
discussed. And we have to wait for
enough people to become outraged uh
about this. And we have to also realize
that
about 50% of people who do take
standards of care are killed by the
treatments. So about 50% of people being
irdiated and poisoned and surgically
mutilated uh die uh from from the
disease from the treatments. And those
who survive
these treatments often pay a significant
price in overall health. Um oftentimes
they have now new malades for the fact
of surviving radiation and poisonous
chemicals uh that they didn't have
before. And now overall their life
expectancy on the planet will be
reduced. uh even though the cancer may
never come back that they were treated
for, they end up uh dying from some
complication of the treatments they
received to manage the cancer. H you
know and and this is a tragedy of the of
a monumental proportion and our
metabolic approach to managing cancer
where we have clinics now and we have
publications showing tremendous success
uh in small well they say you don't do a
big clinical trial and this and that but
you can see you can see when you do
metabolic therapy the correct way which
involves drug diet combinations and
doesn't throw out st parts of standards
of care you just have to know how to use
them differently you get much much
better outcome. We're not saying don't
do radiation toxic chemicals. You just
have to know when and how to use those
in strategic ways rather than using
overdosing and and terrible situations
where where you're using that as your
sole tool when when we have metabolic
therapy where that will allow those
other approaches to work even better
with minimal if any toxicity. So this is
the paradigm change that has to happen
if people want to make a real change in
cancer survival. And the biggest
stumbling block right now is how you
generate enough revenue to replace the
highly revenue generating systems that
we have. And I think that's probably the
most important uh resistance is people
can't figure out how to make money
enough money on metabolic therapy to
replace uh some of the reductions in
costs from other therapies. So so this
is this is the situation. But but I
think the bottom line is people want to
live. They don't want a lot of the
things that they're being confronted
with and they're not being told. And not
only that, if you go to a lot of these
oncology clinics, they never heard of
anything about metabolic therapy. They
tell the cancer patients, "Eat whatever
you want." They have them eat high
glucose and carbs to put weight on
because they're being poisoned from from
drugs. Uh I mean, it it's just like
where there's no there's a lack of
knowledge. It's just it's scary.
>> It's it's really And the lot now the
patients are learning more about how to
manage the disease and the poor
oncologists are getting angry uh having
patients tell them what they want. So
the whole system is in turmoil and it's
becoming worse and more turmoil. It has
to change and and and it's got to change
because we're losing too many good
folks. Too many souls are dying
needlessly from a disease that we now
know how to manage and we're not
managing it correctly.
>> Absolutely. So you're singing my
language for sure. But you know you said
something in there. You said we have a
fundamental misconception of what cancer
is. Tell us what is cancer? Well, cancer
is the definition is disregulated cell
growth. Cell division out of control. If
you have a population of cells that are
no longer responding to signaling
pathways that tell them don't grow, all
of our cells need to grow. Not all, but
mo most of the cells in our various
tissues. Maybe with the exception of
neurons and some other other cells. We
we we have replacement cells. We we some
cells get worn out and they're replaced
by new cells that take over the job, but
there's a regulation of when and how
much they grow in the crypt of the
colon. We're constantly replacing cells
in the colon and and the liver and
different organs. But the replacement is
ordered. It's an ordered replacement.
It's not a disordered replacement. Even
if we take a lobe of liver uh off a
person for one reason or another, the
liver has an an incredible regenerative
capacity where where they will
regenerate the cells that or the part
the the parts of the liver that were
removed. But the replacement the
regeneration happens in an ordered way.
Uh this contrasts with hepatoma which is
a liver tumor hep from a hpatocy that
has disregulated cell growth. So what's
the difference between the regenerating
normal liver cell knowing when it should
stop growing and the hepat the the
hepatoma which continues to grow in a
disregulated way and and the uh cancer
establishment uh American Cancer Society
and the National Institutes of Health
NCI and all major academic centers think
they're mutations uh somatic mutations
that cause the cell to be in a disregul
ated way. That's not true. Uh we now
know that there are many cancers that
have no mutations and we have cancer
mutations present in normal cells that
never become in a disregulated way. So
we have massive evidence to say that
these mutations are not responsible for
the disregulated growth. And what is
responsible is is the disruption of the
mitochondria energy metabolism of the
organel in our cells that generates the
life of the cell. And that's the organel
that controls when a cell should divide
and when it should not divide. And that
organel, that controlling organel
becomes corrupted and the cell begins to
divide out of control because the
checkpoints that control division are no
longer under the control of the
mitochondria. lost it lost its energetic
capacity and the cell falls back on
ancient fermentation pathways,
evolutionarily conserved ancient
fermentation pathways that were
unregulated billions of years ago. And
these cells are unregulated just the way
they were. So we put it all we put all
the all the the path together in a very
logical all based on hard science and
experimentation data. We know exactly
what's going on to the mo for the most
part. We don't know some of the
mechanistic minutia but we certainly
have a bigger picture and we know more
the most important thing is we know how
to manage it without toxicity because we
know how to stop the disregulated growth
you simply have to take and restrict the
fuels that are causing the the
fermentation pathways these ancient
fermentation pathways and once you stop
the glucose and the glutamine driving
the disregulated growth the tumor cells
die they're not flexible they're locked
into a fermentation metabolism so if you
take away their ferment fermentable fuel
fuels glucose and glutamine, they die
and you transition the whole body over
to nutritional ketosis and the normal
cells get healthy while the tumor cells
get killed without toxicity. It's
unbelievable. It works and people
survive and they do really well and and
we're publishing papers on these people.
Uh but they say, "Oh, it's one case
here, one case there. We got cases for
advanced breast cancer, colon cancer,
pancreatic cancer, brain cancer. Oh, you
only have one or two. Oh, it's always
some like, well, show me a thousand
people and and and we're work and
working towards thousands of people, but
we have to start somewhere and and we're
at the beginning and eventually it's
going to be the standard of care for all
people. We're going to be able to manage
this disease without too much cost and
and and and [clears throat]
have people survive a lot longer with a
higher quality of life. What is wrong
with that?
>> Please tell me.
>> It doesn't generate revenue. That's you
you answered your own question in the
beginning.
>> What is wrong? And they they say they
they say I oh I'm a quack or something
like this. I'm not the one radiating and
poisoning people to make them healthy.
[laughter]
You tell me who the quacks are. Right.
>> I I love it. So you know let me just for
my listeners who maybe this is the first
time they're hearing a conversation with
you just to like bring people up to
speed. So what do professor seed freed
is talking about is that cancer cells by
definition use a form of metabolism that
is different than healthy cells that
have healthy functioning mitochondria.
Right? Our normal cells use oxidative
phosphorilation. Cancer cells are using
this rudimentary ancient form of
metabolism because their mitochondria
are either dysfunctional or deficient.
And so therefore they're using
fermentation
which means they rely on fuel sources
like glucose primarily. And then you
also brought up glutamine. Can you speak
to glutamine just so that people can
come up to this? I think a lot of people
understand the idea of cancer using
glucose as its primary fuel. But can you
talk a little bit about the glutamine
aspect of that?
>> Yeah. Well, the glutamine aspect is a
very interesting one because it provides
the nitrogen for the synthesis of DNA
and RNA and proteins because glucose has
no nitrogen. So, so where if a cell is
dividing, it has to synthesize new DNA
and RNA and proteins. So, that's that's
a nitrogenous. You need nitrogen. So,
the glutamine is the and don't forget
the glutamine in our body is the high is
the most abundant amino acid in the
blood. So if you do a blood analysis on
all of us, we'll find that glutamine is
by far much more abundant in the
bloodstream uh than is any than than any
of the other amino acids there. So it's
always there in abundance. There's no
diet that we can know about that will
lower gluc glutamine like we can lower
glucose. So that's why we have to use
certain drugs to li to to lower
glutamine because people always ask me,
oh what can I what can I do to lower my
glutamine? What should I eat? Oh, if I
eat a piece of meat, will it make the
glutamine? Listen, we already have super
saturated levels of glutamine in the
blood. So, eating a piece of meat isn't
going to uh increase any more than what
we already have. So, there's no diet
now.
>> Okay. Actually, I'm going to stop you
with that one because that one's a big
one. So many people are afraid of meat
>> because they're afraid of the glutamine.
So, can you just say that again for
people because this is a piece that I
think is really missed by most people.
Yeah. Well, as I said, the glutamine in
our bloodstream is already maxed out. We
have the highest level of glutamine of
all the amino acids, far greater than
the amount the tumor needs. Okay? Uh but
interestingly enough, despite that, the
tumor cells uh in cexia uh will will
degrade muscle and that's why you say
you lose weight from the cancer and the
glutamine from the muscle is being also
filtered into the tumor cell as well. So
the tumor cell is gobbling up glutamine
uh but it's already present in
sufficient amounts to to satiate that
that that need. We can certainly lower
glucose with diets and things but we
can't really use the same strategy for
lowering glutamine. That's why we need
drugs and and we need specific drugs and
they must be used strategically and
that's why we uh we developed the press
pulse therapeutic strategy. Pressing
glucose down and replacing glucose with
ketone bodies can can transition the
whole body away from sugar glucose to
this new fuel called ketone body. Uh but
that doesn't target the glutamine. So
when we have the body in nutritional or
therapeutic ketosis, then we can come in
with drugs that are specifically going
to target the ability of the tumor cell
to use glutamine. But we have to be so
careful with this because if we use it
for too long or too high of a
concentration, we damage our gut, our
microbiome, and also paralyze our immune
system. Our immune cells are needed to
pick up the dead tumor cells. So, if we
kill a lot of tumor cells and and the
and they're hanging around, the corpses
of the dead tumor cells are in the
tissue and you got you your immune
system has to come in and clean the mess
up. And if we're and if we're targeting
glutamine too aggressively, the very
immune cells and the tumor cells both
need the same fuel.
>> So, so when we take when we choke hold
the glucose and then strategically
target glutamine, we start wiping out
these tumor cells. the immune cells get
paralyzed, but they're not killed. So,
we pull off the drug that's that's
targeting glutamine, allowing the immune
cells to come in and do their job. And
then when they uh, of course, the tumor
grows a little bit, but then we come
back and we do the same thing over and
over again. So, you slowly degrade the
tumor while maintaining the health and
vitality of all the other cells in the
body and other organs. So, we d we we
prevent all kinds of collateral damage,
but you have to be strategic in how you
target the glutamine. And that's where
the cutting edge is right now. Number
one, what are the drugs that will target
glutamine? What are the best drugs? How
often do we use them? When what dossages
do we use them? Stoous, timing, and
scheduling. And that's where we are, and
that's where we're we're working out the
details for that. So, the best drug is
don uh six deoxyorine, but it's not
available, which is an outrage. It's a
terrible outrage. What? The Food and
Drug Administration is constantly
approving toxic drugs and here we have a
drug that's no uh uh less toxic than
some of those other things. But we once
you know how to use the drug, you can
reduce its toxicity. We already showed
that when you put patients in
nutritional ketosis, you can use much
less of the drug. And that also goes for
chemotherapy. You know, we can use half
the doses of chemo when the patient is
in nutritional ketosis. So, Dawn was
used at high doses on little kids and
other cancer patients years ago and it
said, "Oh, it was too toxic." Well, of
course, you used it in the wrong way.
You didn't know how to use it. You have
the tool in your hand and you didn't
know how to use it. Uh uh and now we're
we're working on ways to uh maintain the
power of these drugs and remove their
local their toxicity, which is like
having a new drug. FDA is not interested
in this stuff. They're clueless. They
they prefer to use these drugs uh ma
based on the on the gene theory of
cancer and and and they're very toxic
and kill kill you and pe and and they
say well how do we know that? Why don't
you listen to the advertisements on TV
at night for these drugs? They spend
more time on how the drug is going to
kill you than they do on and yet they
show a happy guy. Why don't they
somebody riding a bicycle and swimming
or kayaking? Why don't they show you the
guy sitting on the toilet for for six
hours a day? You know, or you know, it's
just like they're gonna blow out your
kidneys and your liver. And they always
say a chance, a chance, a chance. Yeah.
Well, there's a greater chance that it
could kill you as well. Metabolic
therapy does not kill anybody. At least
we haven't killed anybody with
nutritional ketosis. I mean, and people
usually get very healthy. So it's
nutritional keto ketosis uh uh combined
with specific glutamine targeting drugs
uh that work together synergistically to
slowly degrade the tumor and yes water
only fasting these these putting these
bodies like fasting and thing that
lowers the blood sugar elevates the
ketones and then you can modify diets to
maintain low glucose and elevated
ketones and then come in strategically
with glutamine targeting drugs to kill
off these tumor cells without with with
minimal of no toxicity. This is what I
keep saying everybody. Everybody says I
don't believe it. I says what what's
what part of the science do you not
believe? We published all of this. We
showed you the scientific mechanism and
I'm not the first one to do this. The
great scientist out of Worberg was the
first one to show this. I mean he's a
Nobel Prize nominated for the Nobel
Prize more than any other scientist in
the history and he said cancer starts as
a mitochondrial metabolic problem. The
problem with Warberg is he does he
didn't have access to the information
that we now have nor did he do the
recent experiments that we did to show
the glutamine. He didn't know anything
about the glutamine issue. So now we
know that glutamine is fermented. The
field knows about glutamine but they all
thought it was respired in the
mitochondria. Cancer cells cannot
respire. Their mitochondria are
dysfunctional. Okay. And we also showed
oxygen consumption is not linked to ATP
synthesis in cancer cells like it is in
normal cells. We did all these
experiments and we clearly then if you
know what you're talking about, if you
really understand and you know what
you're telling me, give me a person with
stage four breast cancer, brain cancer,
colon cancer, let me see you use your if
you know what you're doing, let me see
that person come out. We're seeing that.
Obviously, if you know what the hell
you're doing, you're going to keep
people alive. And we know what we're
doing. We're keeping people alive. The
problem is is few too few and far
between. There's not enough people that
understand what I'm talking about. Yeah.
Especially in the oncology clinics. They
have no clue. What I just told you is
completely unheard of or not not known
in the oncology clinics.
>> No, absolutely. I know that because I
was trained in it and then practiced in
there and we have candy. We had candy
bowls and donuts and you know we just
basically were taught nothing about
nutrition let alone about mitochondria
or metabolic dysfunction. But so for the
listeners this is a combination. So your
approach is a combination of you include
fasting. There's a kabot to fasting, the
ketogenic diet really shooting for
ketones above four, glucose below 65
with a GKI less than two. Is that
correct? And then the Dawn the press
pulse therapy is an addition. Is that
correct? Is that a correct summary?
>> Yeah. Well, I I we're trying to get away
from the term ketogenic diet.
>> Okay.
>> Because that pisses off a lot of people
in the medical profession. I've
discovered one tool that has completely
transformed how my clients heal,
resetting their metabolism, activating
the body's natural healing, and giving
them incredible mental clarity. That
tool is water fasting, and you can
access my free workshop all about
fasting as a healing modality right now.
I cover how fasting actually works in
your body, the different types of fasts,
and how to know which approach is right
for you. And most importantly, I cover
how to do it safely. Whether you're
navigating health challenges, have tried
fasting before, or are completely new to
it. This workshop is for you. I'll share
real success stories for my practice,
and give you the framework I use with my
clients. You can watch it now by
accessing the link in this episode's
description. This workshop could change
how you think about healing entirely.
Okay, tell me, what's the right word?
What's the right term? Uh it's called uh
therapeutic ketosis.
>> Okay.
>> Or nutritional ketosis.
>> Yeah.
>> And that could be achieved by sub ketone
supplements or any diet that will bring
your glucose ketone index as you said
down to 2.0 or below.
And that that could be a Mediterranean
restricted Mediterranean diet, a
carnivore diet, a pescatarian diet.
That's why we say what is a keto oh the
ketogenic diet. It it it could be
anything that will bring you into a
state of nutritional or therapeutic
ketosis. Uh which is actually four four
is very nice four millola ketones, but
you don't have to be even that high.
Even if you're a two uh millmer and your
blood sugar is low, you'll get a low
GKI. So, uh and and that's the that's
the it's not only for prevention because
if you keep your mitochondria healthy,
the likelihood of getting cancer is
remote anyway. So that's why you have
these prevention strat. But nobody's
interested in prevention. Uh the only
thing that worked for prevention is stop
smoking. Okay, I stopped smoking. We
saved a lot of people's lives. That's
for sure. But then you tell some guy,
you know, pounding down a big Twinkie,
you know, uh you know, I don't think you
should eat that. Ah, you know, go go to
I don't want to hear about that. Then he
gets a big tumor, a colon tumor. Then he
wants to know what am I going to do?
Well, I said, you shouldn't have eaten
been eaten the Twinkie. It was the
Twinkie that gave you the colon tumor.
Well, I'm I'm beyond that now. Now, what
are you going to do for me? So, now you
have to bring that person's blood sugar
down uh and you have to put them into a
state of nutritional ketosis. And I know
the fasting, we love it, but it's hard
to do a as a cold turkey thing. So what
what we do I I'm not a physician so I
can't tell people what to do or what not
to do but my colleagues who are
physicians they they they bring the
patient into a state of nutritional
ketosis by uh zero carb diets extremely
low carbohydrate dieting and whatever
brings your GKI down slowly uh we do
that and then the body slowly adapts
after about 10 to 14 days and then you
can step off into water only fasting
because now it's not so much of a shock
your body has been acclimating ing to
this and you'll notice big time uh the
craving that you have for something
sweet as you stop eating sweet things.
But you're eating ribeye. You like
ribeye steaks. I mean uh you you you
like Philly minan with Bernet sauce on
it or you like a salmon with a Bernet
sauce. I mean these things are nice,
right? That's not the worst thing in the
world. Let's be honest. Now, if you're a
vegan or a planteater, uh you can eat
eggs. Uh that'll do it. Bacon and eggs.
Well, bacon for sure, bacon, eggs. I'm
telling you, these are the things that
will bring your GKI down. Uh, no bread,
no no no no no rice, potatoes, or any of
that kind of stuff. And then you can
jump into water only fasting. Your body
then is already acclimated. It's not so
much of a big step uh at the end. It's
the difference between wanting to get to
the first floor from the second floor.
You can either jump out the window and
get there in one second or you can take
the stairs and get there. It just takes
you a little longer by as your body uh
uh acclimates to the new the new state.
And then when you're in that state and
and approaching that state, then uh we
give drugs uh that will target the
glutamine strategically while while you
are keeping the glucose down, the
ketones up, and now you're targeting the
glutamine. And we we we we have these
people do a lot of exercise because
exercise pulls sugar out of the blood.
So you even pull it
>> Can I just can I stop you for one
second? When you're talking about doing
exercise, you're talking about not
you're talking about if someone is in
nutritional ketosis from diet. You're
not telling people who are water only
fasting to be doing rigorous exercise.
Is that correct?
>> Yeah. Yeah, you can do that. My friend
Don, you know, Dom Dagustinino,
>> right? He water, he was doing one week
of water, he broke the deadlift record
of the world in Guinness's book on a on
a water only fast after seven days.
>> So, of course, Dom, you Yeah, but not
say no. So, obviously someone who's
healthy and using you know fasting but
in a healing state and this is my
personal experience with fasting people
doing prolonged water only fasting is
that that in order for the healing to
occur they need to be resting. So, I'm
just wanting to clarify that piece about
>> I would say I I would say what we're
what we're experiencing uh with that and
I agree. I I I know what you're talking
about because they have these fasting
clinics there. People just, you know,
walk around there. We're not saying go
out and run 10 miles. Uh or walk and and
the person would would adjust their
exercise, whatever the exercise they
wanted. Walking is exercise. Okay.
Swimming is exercise. Uh the question is
you don't want to overdo it, but you
want to do it enough to keep your to
have an impact on your glucose ketone
index. For example, if someone is doing
uh low carbohydrate diet, water only
fasting and they have a GKI of say two
uh which is good but if they were to go
out and do a leisurely walk for uh 15
minutes and the GKI goes down to one uh
and they are not stressed by this level
of exercise, it's only therapeutic to do
that. I agree 100%. You don't take
someone and have them run a marathon. Uh
>> well, yeah. My but my So my experience
is that because I do test ketones and
glucose and GKI every day in my water
only fasters who fast up to 30 days that
once you get past like day four,
you really their GKI is like one or
less. Yeah.
>> So you really don't need to push that
down any further with exercise in terms
of the GKI. But let me ask you this. So,
in the way that you guys are doing this,
you're doing 10 days of extremely low
carb to get them into nutritional
ketosis. Then, how long of a water only
fast are you doing before you then put
them back onto, you know, a diet that is
nutritional ketosis?
>> Yeah. Well, that's variable to the type
of person that we're dealing with. Uh
what are their age? What is their state
of health? at the beginning.
>> Let's just say someone like who is
robust, who you think could handle what
what would your ideal be?
>> Okay. Well, this again uh has to be
judged from a variety of different
perspectives. Again, what's the body
weight of the person? Uh what's their
overall viewpoint? There's a lot of
things that
>> but so let's just say someone has a BMI
where they have, you know, weight to
lose. They're robust. you know, someone
who's 40, has excess weight, is, you
know, in a good spot other than this
cancer diagnosis. What would be your
kind of ideal?
>> Well, I think, you know, what we're
seeing is is that once you get down into
that, as you said, 2.0 or below, you
have a lot of options now. What what
what are you going to do? And and and
here's where we give them drugs. How do
they feel when when we do this? Uh uh
overall, you know, some people say, "I
really feel good. I I thought I'd feel a
lot worse, but I actually don't." And
you know that you can you see people
that are that are um uh more flexible.
Uh sometimes we do two or three days and
then bring them back into a into a low
gluc carbohydrate diet. Carnivore really
works really well, but but again you
don't eat you don't eat too much. Uh
everybody has to realize that if you if
you overeat whatever you're eating, it's
going to throw you out of ketosis. So
it's more or less like our an
Paleolithic ancestors. uh they were
always in a state of nutritional ketosis
and they always did a lot of ex now
those days there was no conveniences
that we have today. So uh um we're just
trying to bring people back into the
paleolithic state uh that we were in and
then deliver drugs strategically to
target the glutamine and at the same
time we're using a large number well the
various non-invasive te uh technologies
to monitor the tumor. So you have PET
scan, MRI, CAT scan, whatever you think
would be a good way to determine whether
or not uh that whatever whatever the
strategy you're using is successful. So
a tumor was there big and now it's half
the size or a small one was there now
it's gone. We we've seen a lot of
different uh outcomes with different
strategies. We've also seen significant
success when a patient is in nutritional
ketosis and then a small dose of chemo
uh at usually much lower dose than what
was would have been used under standard
conditions and with a tremendous power.
Same with radiation. You know, as long
as the patient is in nutritional
ketosis, you may not need as many doses
for as long as you do to get a
remarkable outcome. And that I have to
leave to the judgment of the of the
physician. They make a decision. They
go, "Oh my god, we we had we have a a
colon cancer p person that I'm working
with, helakus. Uh he was in bad shape.
Had a colon cancer spread around his
body. It was obstructing the he did what
you said, water only fasting and uh and
we hit him with a parasite medications.
The um embendol, which targets glutamine
and glucose. Can you believe it? The
parasites use the same pathway as the
tumor to get energy. So these parasite,
when you're in nutritional ketosis, some
of these parasite medications are really
important. Well, when this guy was
diagnosed, his tumor was already quite
large and they scheduled him for surgery
u several weeks later to get the to put
it on. They said you can go for a few
weeks. Uh well, Alicia put him did the
metabolic therapy. The tumor shrunk to
the point where he went in for the
surgeries, there was nothing to cut
nothing to cut out. So the guy went back
and he and they said, "Wow, you look a
hell of a lot better." All of his blood
work looked really good from the way it
was. He had a C reactive protein uh that
measure that was off the scales. I mean,
he was full of inflamed. He was
inflamed. He had high high sugar in his
blood. He was insulin resistant. He had
colon cancer. He had all this. And then
in a few short, it was about three or
four weeks uh for this to really
subside. It was unbelievable. Uh and
even the oncologist was shocked and and
and the oncologist says, "Oh, now he's
responding so well. Now we can jump."
They were giving him
50% of the dose of chemo. And then they
said, "Oh, now now we can give 100%."
Why would you want to give me it already
worked at 50%. You want to jack them up
with higher. So, so and this is the the
the mindset that has to change. we get
tremendable
results uh with less radiation and less
chemo and the outcomes are even more
more phenomenal. What's what's
interesting though is and I think that
you hit the nail on the head at the very
beginning is that and this is what I
know from being a healthcare leader you
know I was really looking at end to end
cancer care and there are lots of ways
that you can reduce cost you can reduce
toxicity you can reduce use of
medications but the problem is the
system actually doesn't want that so
it's like the the the reason why it's
hard to get to move the needle in this
direction of number one, the physicians
are taught nothing about nutrition,
which I'm hoping will shift, but the
other piece is that what we're doing is
we're reducing the revenue of the system
by using nutritional ketosis. And I'm on
your side. I it's like and I know you
know this but it's like
>> the incentives are the exact reverse
that that what they want is what is
going to generate revenue and that that
that's what the system wants and so
anything that is reducing that is
potentially a threat to the system.
>> Well, you know we always the system is
some vague concept. There are people
that control the system. So you just
have to know who the hell is controlling
the system and do they have a moral
conscience or not? and they have to be
identified and they and and if it's true
then they the the American medical
association or whoever writes the
standards of care for cancer who's in
who's responsible for maintaining the
standard of care for cancer and you can
have brain cancer and different kinds of
cancers have slightly different
approaches if that s that system is
trying to stop an already aggressive
problem uh with without linkage to the
underlying biology ology and
biochemistry of the problem. And you're
you're hitting it right on the head. But
you know, I hear that comment all the
time. I can't believe
your profession of physicians going to
>> It's not the physicians. It's not the
physicians.
>> Yeah. Right. Yeah.
>> The physicians are caught in the system.
>> They are. They are. It's but I know this
just from so when I was you know leading
end to end cancer care for a large
health care organization the physicians
the boots on the ground the people who
are actually taking care of the patients
want the right things to happen but the
problem is when you shift this you're
basically shifting the incentives at the
top level that the whole system is based
on revenue from illness right and
basically you're then reversing and
helping people get healthy which you
know God help us this is why we all went
into this profession but it's such a
corrupt system and you're absolutely
right that there are people at the top
you know but it's the pharmaceutical if
I had to say where I think this all
comes from is I think it's the
pharmaceutical companies that are really
driving the incentives within the
healthare system
>> well I think it's it's not just that and
and we've look we've already looked into
it of course that's a big you're abs
100% right that is a big a big uh
problem because they also Here's the
situation. In 1984,
the National uh uh Cancer Institute uh
the progress towards the cure, and I
hate to use the term I never I don't
like to use the term cure for cancer. I
like to I like to use the the term
successful management of cancer. Maybe
maybe you'll it'll never come back and
you can say you were cured, but cure is
an arrogant term. Uh usually giving
people false hope about things. Let's
look for uh a successful management. You
had something that was potentially
life-threatening and now it's not. We
keep some of these people alive who have
so-called terminal cancer for for 10
years with glyopblasto. He should have
been dead a long time ago. Was he cured?
No, it's still there, but he's managed.
So, and we look at breast cancer and we
look at colon cancer uh like that. The
these people are given uh six months to
live and they're alive 10 years later,
but they're maybe not completely cured,
but they're managed successfully. But
but let's look at the 1984 the su the
the race to the successful management
was slow. So let's invite the big
pharmaceutical companies into the
academic labs at the top hospitals to
see if we could accelerate the race to
the successful management. How's that
working? 1,800700
people a day dying right? That ain't
working. Okay. So uh once you once you
corrupt the system with big money uh uh
then you actually and a wrong theory
under which the nature of the disease is
uh you're not going to get the kind of
progress that you would have expected.
Not only that the National Cancer
Institute awards you know their their
budget is something like $7 billion and
a lot of that research money goes to
guys chasing genes gene chasers. Uh it's
not a genetic disease. You're wasting
you're flushing your money away on stuff
that's largely irrelevant. And they keep
telling you that, oh, you got a alk one
mutation and you got this and you got
that. No, no, no. You have disregulated
metabolism. You're fermenting. Take away
the fermentable fuels and you'll manage
the disease.
>> Can you say for the listeners,
you know, I've heard you say this, but
we actually did it off camera last time.
It was after the end of our interview,
but can you explain why we have the
genetic mutations and how the genetic
mutations are actually the result of the
metabolic dysfunction rather than the
cause of the cancer? Can you
>> explain that because I think that's
really powerful. People need to hear
this.
>> Yeah. Well, the the the question is
where do all these mutations come from
in the first place?
>> Yeah. It shifted when we started to look
at the deep genomic sequences of of
cancers. And we started to know we had
it was known from the early days of the
1900s that there are mito um chromosomal
abnormalities in cancer and maybe that
was the cause of this or that. And you
know people and then and then our love
of molecular biology
drove us to start looking at the
structure and function of DNA and genes.
And we found mutations
all kinds of mutations in cancer cells a
from a variety of different cancers. And
then we started to think that maybe
those mutations are responsible for
disregulated cell growth. So we stud
study the cell cycles of cells and we
find them out of control and they have a
lot of mutations and we find mutations
here and there a and [clears throat] and
that was thought to be the holy grail of
what's causing the disregulated growth.
In the mitochondrial metabolic theory uh
we have the origin of the mutations is
coming from chronic dis disruption of
oxidative phosphorilation. So the
mitochondria produce ROS reactive oxygen
species the re the hydroxal annion and
the super oxide they they in low in low
amounts they're very important for
signaling and keeping things working but
in high amounts from chronic disruption
they cause they're carcinogenic and
mutagenic. So the mitochondria are
pouring out carcinogens themselves in
the form of ROSS and the ROSS cause the
mutations in the genome. So, so they're
downstream effects of the damage to the
oxidative phosphorilation. This was the
ankcogenic paradox pointed out by Albert
Sinceri, a Nobel Prize guy himself uh
who said there is a paradox that I'm no
one solved. We well we solved the
paradox. How is it possible that
ankcogenic viruses, intermittent
hypoxia, radiation, systemic
inflammation, viruses, uh, age, all of
these things can be linked to cancer
incidents. What is the common
pathophysiological mechanism by which
all these provocative agents, a whole
disperate group of things could possibly
cause disregulated cell growth? And and
the answer is every one of those
provocative agents in one way or another
chronically disrupts the ability of that
organel in a particular cell or in a
particular organ and group of cells in
an organ to start failing in their
ability to produce energy efficiently
producing ROSS ROS. It's a it's a a
vicious cycle. More ROSS, more damage,
more damage, more ROSS causing mutations
as downstream effects. And then the cell
in order to remain alive, it has to
transition away from this highly
efficient energy system to these
inefficient systems called fermentation,
as we talked about, driven by glucose
and glutamine. But the the the
mitochondria appear to be suffocating
because they're not producing enough
energy. They signal the nucleus to open
up the floodgates bringing in glucose
and glutamine. So uh we have these ankco
genes that are facilitators of opening
the floodgates the transporters for
glucose and glutamine to transition the
cell away from away from respir
respiratory high energy through
respiration.
So they then generate this fermentation
mechanism. But what's really important,
the connection to all of the hallmarks
of cancer and the disregulated cell
growth is that the efficiency of energy
metabolism in the mitochondria itself
controls internal calcium signaling.
It's internal calcium signaling and that
signaling controls the checkpoints of
the cell cycle. So the cell cells know
when to grow and when not to grow based
on on on on cycles of calcium generated
by the mitochondria. So the mitochondria
can actually sense the neighborhood. Uh
because one of the things that cancer
cells no longer respond to is contact
inhibition. Normally when cells are in a
they call a society of cells. All the
liver cells are packed together. They're
doing their their general function. The
lung cells, the colon cells, the breast
cells. But cancer cells no longer
respond to contact inhibition. And
that's all controlled by disregulated
internal calcium signaling from from the
mitochondria. Thereby the checkpoints
that are supposed to control the growth
are no longer under the regulation
because the efficiency of respiration is
dysfunctional and the cells fall fall
back on their default state which is
proliferation the way it was before
oxygen came into the atmosphere two and
a half billion years ago and and they're
running through the cycle un
unregulated. The stop signs are no
longer there because the cycling well
what's controlling the cycling the
mitochondria. Well, how did you destroy
that? Well, the rocks broke up the
mitochondria. the signaling is off and
the cells are running through a a a
disregulated growth driven by
fermentation metabolism which is glucose
and glutamine. So we've been able to put
the whole package together and all of
the characteristics that you see in
cancer are all downstream effects of
what I've just described. So how do you
stop this whole thing is you've got to
take away the two fermentable fuels and
transition the whole body to a fuel that
the tumor cells can't use because their
respiration is defective. You need good,
you need good respiration to burn fatty
acids and ketone bodies. As a matter of
fact, we published a big paper. All
major cancers in the cytoplasm have
lipid droplets, triglyceride lipid
droplets. And the field of cancer thinks
they're there to drive the disregulated
growth as an energy source. No, they're
there because if the they're there
because they can't drive they're stored
there to protect the cell. If the cell
tries to use that, it's going to get too
much ROSS and die. So the fatty acids
are collected in the cytoplasm as a
marker for insufficient oxidative
phosphorilation. So clearly uh uh we've
put all the puzzle parts of this puzzle
together. We know exactly I wouldn't say
exactly but we know more about this than
anyone else does and and our and the out
and how do we know? I published these
papers and we put the the the the
information out there. The pro the
problem is I'm saying so many things
that are antagonistic
to the field the system
>> the s the system we have shown where the
system has made major errors and we have
shown the path to this and then when we
take away these fuels and transition the
body we get tremendous management.
>> So it clearly tells us we know what
we're doing. The problem is, the problem
is the field has been stuck in this rut
for 50 to 75 years thinking it's
something other than what it is. Now
listen to this. New information is
coming out now uh with deep sequencing
of our normal cells in our body, your
body and my body. We take tissues out
from some part of our what whatever
tissue we want to do and now we run deep
sequencing genomic analysis on these
tissues. And guess what? we see all
these driver gene mutations that were
linked to disregulated cell growth. They
thought that there's no disregulated
cell growth. Our bodies are full of
these driver mutations in different
cells of our body that are not in
disregulated cell growth. And then we
have no now we're finding these cancers
that have no mutations. So, but every
cancer has dysfunctional mitochondria.
That's everyone. So cancer is one
singular disease. Whether it's a brain
tumor, breast cancer, colon cancer,
bladder cancer, melanoma, they all have
dysfunctional mitochondria, they're all
fermenting and we know how to kill them
and we know how to manage them because
it's one singular disease. This is
another fact that the system does not
want to hear because when you hear the
advertisements on the news at night, we
have a special just for your cancer. No,
no, no. We have this thing for anybody's
[laughter]
just we treat it as one singular disease
having a common pathophysiological
problem and you show me a tumor cell
that can survive on glucose and without
glucose and glutamine and has a a normal
respiratory system and I'll throw the
towel in here. We don't need to talk
anymore. We I've offered money to
students. They're killing themselves
trying to find cancer cells that have
normal respiration and and don't use
glucose and glutamine. They can't find
them. So we know what we need to do to
manage the cancer. we know what causes
cancer and and Otto Warberg
unfortunately didn't have access to the
new information that we have. He was
right as concept but he was you know
beat up and thrown under the bus running
off chasing genes that have had no major
impact on reducing death rates. Uh and
50% of these drugs are killing people
and they cost you an arm and a leg you
know and it's just like it's a broken
broken terrible broken system that we
can put easily back on track.
>> Yeah. and keep people alive.
>> So, let me ask you a question about cuz
one of the things that and and I
actually love that you said it's not a
ketogenic diet because it's so
interesting. I see so many people and
they're like, "I'm on a ketogenic diet."
And I'm like, "Okay, well, tell me what
you're eating." And then I'm like,
"Okay, there's no way nutritional
ketosis." Like, it's like no way with
what they're eating, right?
>> And so, I [clears throat] love that.
It's like it requires measuring. So my
listeners like
>> nutritional therapeutic ketosis requires
you to be measuring and to have a GKI
less than 2.0. So that it's not like
this I'm eating more fat and I'm going
to say I'm on a ketogenic diet and
that's what Dr. Professor Seaf Freed is
talking about. This is a very clearly
defined. But the other thing that that
people come to me ask me about is
they're like I hear Dr. Seaff freed I'm
like on board. This is absolutely I
believe in this. And then they're like,
I can't find a provider who's doing the
pressulse and the dawn. They can't get
the dawn. So what what is the mechanism?
How are people to access this glutamine,
you know, depleting therapies?
>> Well, this is again, this is the great
tragedy. Why the Food and Drug
Administration doesn't re-evaluate
what's going on here? What do they have?
No functional brain cells. I mean I mean
what or are they controlled by the
system? You know, this is this is the
the the thing, you know, tell me what
number you'd like me to change to make
everything okay for you. You know, uh
the the issue that's why we have
parasite medications, uh and people, oh,
you know, we tested ambendazol. We have
a paper out and for pediatric brain
cancer. My god, what we can do to save
these little kids with pediatric brain
cancer. We we we know how to stop the
tumor. We know how to manage this so
these kids aren't brutalized by the
system. And we published the paper and
we showed that Mbendendazol parasite
medication targets glycolysis and
glutaminolysis.
>> And you're saying Mbendazol not me
Mbendazol. E
>> meendazol. Meendazol. Okay.
>> Meendazol. [laughter] Okay. It's like
it's like fenbendazol.
>> Yeah. No, I know. I just I just I wasn't
hearing the M. I was hearing just M.
Okay. So Meendazol.
>> Meendisol.
>> Okay. Got it.
>> Yeah. and that we've tested that and I'
if I had money I would test Ivormectin
and I would test fenendazol and possibly
some of the other parasite medications.
Every time we run run one of these
studies it's about 50 or $60,000. You
know people think oh can you just run
this for me? You know, I got a staff of
the highly most highly trained
professionals and the best pre-clinical
animal models, natural, not these
genetically engineered things. Uh the
natural cancers that we have in in the
mouse that represent uh what humans
have. And we, you know, it's hard to
manage these just as it is to manage
human cancers. But we're getting
tremendous success because we're
starting to understand these things. But
I I I I I'm looking we're constantly
looking for powerful synergies between
diet drug combinations. Uh once you're
in nutritional ketosis, we're finding
that there's some powerful synergies
that exist where we can manage these
tumors without toxicity. But this costs
money. And our entire program is
supported by philanthropy a and private
foundations. You know, pancreatic cancer
and breast cancer and and and brain
cancer. I mean,
>> so I want to just come back to this
question. So if people want to find
these therapies, how are they to find
them? I mean, the Mendazol is easy.
>> Okay, that that's that's the that's the
system. Okay, the system is not trained
or knowledgeable to use press pulse
metabolic therapy. It's not sanctioned
by the system. Whatever the system is,
medical associations, cancer boards, or
whatever it is, that's the system. And
the problem as I have come to know and
others is that some of these systems are
acceptable to it metabolic therapy that
is uh once they've expended all the
toxic poisons and mutilations and every
else everything else they do and they
say this patient is now terminal there's
nothing more we can do go home and make
peace with God and your family or
whatever. And then maybe they'll say oh
you might want to do metabolic therapy.
Well, well, for crying out loud, you've
taken the you pull the cards out for
this poor person. Do metabolic therapy
first and if the cancer disappears, you
don't need radiation and chemo. The the
worst example of this is brain cancer
where we take these poor
souls that have glyopblast
and they will not they [snorts] before
we can do metabolic therapy, we have to
irdiate the brain. That that is is
counterproductive. It frees up massive
amounts of glucose and glutamine in the
micro environment of the brain, feeding
the very cells you're trying to kill,
and it makes it much much more difficult
to get longer term survival after
radiation. Uh we we shrink the tumor
down, make it small, indolent, and and
non-aggressive. cut it out, have the
surgeon come in, debulk the tumor, and
we know that the more you debulk, the
longer you're going to live, and then
transition this person off to a
metabolic therapy with uh with glutamine
targeting drugs and nutritional ketosis.
You should not need you should not need
radiation.
>> I'm with you 100%. So, this is the
question that people ask me is how do I
find a provider who does these therapies
who can get access to the drugs? because
that is the question that people are
asking that that
>> okay you want you want to know ask go
ask Jr. That's the guy he he has he's
one of the guys who can change this.
>> So it's basically just because the Dawn
that you can't get Dawn because the FDA
is not what is it's it's not FDA
approved. Is that what the issue is?
>> Well, here it was. It was used in phase
2 clinical trials years ago. If you look
back at the history of this drug, it it
was an antibiotic isolated from some
bark or something and it was used for a
variety of cancers, but they had the
same level of toxicity that they have
for some of the chemos that we have
today. Lumistine and finine and cis
platin and these kinds of things, but uh
for little kids with leukemia, it was
actually it actually had some
therapeutic benefit. But none of the
none of the none of the trials were
targeting glucose at the same time. So,
so the the drug if you target glucose,
you can lose much lower concentrations
of the drug, thereby significantly
reducing toxicity.
>> Got it.
>> And the drug is a dirt and the drug is a
dirty drug. You know what a dirty drug
is?
>> They don't like the pharmaceutical
companies hate dirty drugs. Okay?
Because you can't patent them. The the
problem is the the Dawn targets multiple
families of glutaminases. Not one
subunit in one member of the family,
which would be a blockbuster, but the f
the because it's like whack-a-ole. Oh, I
hit that subunit. They take glutamine
through that that that pathway. Take
glutamine. Don shuts them all down
simultaneously. Makes it very effective.
But you have to use it strategically.
You don't want to harm your immune
system. So this is what I'm saying. You
need to know something about the biology
and biochemistry of the cells, the
normal cells and the tumor cells that
you're trying to manage.
>> But it sounds like even with the the
doctors who know how to use this right
now, it's not available in terms of
using Dawn. Is there another
>> so would you have people use meendazol
and is the are the doses similar to
what's being what what is the dose of
mabendazol? Well, you know, we we
started originally at the doses they
give to kids with parasites in India was
200 milligrams a day for three days and
the parasites were dropping out of the
people, right? So, so but for cancer uh
we we because it's it's not it doesn't
go away in three days. So what we know
is that we strategically uh different
different physicians in the uh society
of of metabolic oncology are learning
different concentrations, different
dosages and timings uh to work with this
and I I believe there's going to be a
lot of use in p and this is another
thing that really pisses me off. Uh and
mendazol is 50 cents a tablet in in in
India, right? As soon as the oncology
field realized it might work for cancer,
it's $300 a tablet. What the hell is
wrong with these people?
>> Have they no morals moral conscience?
Are they are they immoral? I mean, who
is running the show here?
You know, our goal here is not to make
money. At least me is to keep people
alive without toxicity.
>> So maybe I'm a weirdo. So So um with
Right.
>> So let me ask you this. So you you said
a statement in there metabolic oncology
society. Is that what you said?
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's it's the international
society of metabolic oncology. So this
is can can people find physicians who
are in this who are looking at the
dosing of
>> all the physician? Yeah. All of the
physicians are currently trying to
negotiate the system. Okay. As you would
say. So, uh, and and the fear, of
course, if you're an MD with a license
and you choose to do something that's
not sanctioned by the system, you could
potentially lose your your license for
something that's actually better that
much better than what the system is is
pushing.
>> Oh, yeah.
>> So, you you run up against the system.
And what we need to do is have someone
strong enough to challenge the system
and find out who are the individuals. Is
it some amorphous cloud in the sky
that's dictating this? Or is there some
guy sitting there breathing that's that
or a a group of people that are standing
in the way of progress preventing people
from experiencing what they should be
able to experience at a reasonable cost
without the level of toxicity? Who are
these people standing in the way of
progress? That's what I want to know. Is
it the National Cancer Institute itself?
If they're on their website telling
people that cancer is a genetic disease,
then they have a serious problem. in
understanding scientific research. All
right? And we're publishing more and
more pe stuff like so are they part of
the system as well? We have RFK
screaming and yelling about all this
stuff. Why doesn't he do something good
and challenge this system? He's telling
people now you can go out and eat fat
saturated fats, which is okay as long as
it's calorier restricted
and as long as you're measuring your GKI
at the same time. Well, I mean, I think
I I do think actually that that
particular move of removing the
constraints of saturated fats is a move
in the right direction because that
basically was completely false data that
that was created by
>> um so but
>> okay. So, what I'm hearing from you is
that it's really hard right now for
people to get access to these particular
medications. And I hate to say this, but
I'm like I'm going to have to have you
back because I want to talk about mphagy
and fasting and and get get more into
that piece of it, but but I'm so glad
actually that we were able to at least
address this because this is the
question just as like the boots on the
ground
>> provider who is outside the system. And
by the way, like when I started talking
about using water fasting for healing, I
was told, you know what, doctors are
taken out for that, like for saying
those things out loud that you're things
out loud. So I understand why these
doctors are afraid,
>> you know, because it's real. Like there
there are there are entities, beings,
whatever you want to call it, powers
that be, that don't want these things to
change. So I understand that. And I
think this is important for people to
know that it is hard right now to get
your hands on these medications and find
physicians who are able to
>> but but but that's even even with that
we are publishing papers on case reports
of advanced breast cancer uh brain
cancer and these kinds of things
publishing in peer-review journals.
>> No 100% the data is there. You guys have
published the data. The problem is the
people who want to access it. That's
that's what that that's who we're
speaking to right now on this podcast is
those people are like, "Okay, short of a
study."
>> Okay. Well, this is where it gets into
the the the difficulty because I have
people listening to me. Oh, he says
that. Don't forget the reason why I can
say all this is because I'm not part of
the system. I don't have a license to
lose, right? So, so I can do the science
and I can publish the science and I can
talk about the science without fear that
I'm going to lose my license. My job at
Boston College is to teach undergraduate
and graduate students biology and
biochemistry and and and and they like
this. Uh and we use cancer as a as a as
a as a demonstration to integrate large
areas of biology and biochemistry. But
the poor guy person that has a a
metastatic cancer is goes to his
oncologist and says I would like to have
metabolic therapy press pulse. Thank
you. Why you can't do that? uh we're
going to have to give you the standard
of care, one shoe fits all. And and and
I'm saying this is the greatest tragedy
in the history of medicine that we have
a clear plan and strategy to manage a
very difficult and life-threatening
disease and yet we cannot use it. This
should make anyone with cancer outraged.
Where the hell is the public outrage on
this? That's what I want to know. And I
feel so bad because I get emails back
from all these people going to their
oncologist saying glucose has nothing to
do with cancer. Eat whatever you want.
>> What are you kidding me? That's
malpractice for crying out loud. You
know, so so it's the lack of knowledge
and I don't know if they intentionally,
as you said, boots on the ground. I I
maybe the new generation will have a
better understanding of this, but
there's a lot of resistance on the part
of physicians themselves.
>> Yeah. uh to do this uh not only the
system
>> but I can speak to that part. So having
been a physician who was in the system
and decided to leave
>> there's so much security tied up in all
of that right like I gave up a salary to
you know step out into the unknown and
not you know be looking at a revenue
generated way of supporting myself you
know not thinking about the money first
but thinking about the patient first. I
can just say that most physicians, you
know, are caught in this. They're
they're caught on the the the rat race,
whatever it is that they can't get off.
And so, but I think, you know, I'm just
so grateful for you putting this science
out. And this is part of it is is
letting more people know and really
understanding the science. And I think
how you described that that this is not
a genetic condition but it's the
dysfunctional mitochondria that
basically you then create the free
radical you know reactive oxygen species
that then lead to the genetic mutations
and cancer is kind of the last step in
this metabolic dysfunction of real
illness that if we can address that we
can basically reverse so many of the
illnesses that we're seeing in today's
world. But the the I think education is
the first step. And then it's funny cuz
you said at the beginning of this,
you're like, "When do I get to go relax
and go to a a home and just whatever?"
And I'm like, "When the passion goes out
of you." I'm watching. You're so
passionate about this. But that's
incredible because and you know, I think
it's so unfortunate that we have to feel
so frustrated and like, you know, have
this message inside of us that we feel
like nobody is listening to. But the
truth is people are hearing you. And I'm
so grateful for one that there is
someone like you who is publishing the
science, who's putting the stuff
together so that those of us who are out
trying to help people in the right way
can find solutions, you know, because it
doesn't have to be the toxic therapy
that we've been taught.
>> No. And we have some things that are
coming down the pike that are really
going to blow the doors off the system.
So, and and it's going to be hard to to
cover this up uh because it's there's
too much science behind it and there's
too much momentum for it and and that
you're not going to be able to shut down
and uh uh it's coming. So, I'm just
telling people brace yourselves. The
paradigm change is coming and it will
come and and it will take over the
entire system in the right direction and
there will be losers and there will be
winners. Uh but the winner, the big
winner is going to be the cancer patient
and and a lot of other people suffering
from chronic diseases. So uh just hold
on to your hats. It's coming.
>> Beautiful. I love that. As my mentor
always says, you can only block the sun
with your thumb for so long. You know,
eventually you're going to see that
there's the sun there. So I I as long as
long as I have people that are
philanthropists
uh without strings uh who just want to
see uh this happen and feel good about
it. And don't forget when we publish
papers, if you notice my papers, you'll
say, "Look at the acknowledgement. Who
the hell are all these people that he
names in these papers?" Well, those are
the guys those are the guys footing the
bills for what we're doing.
>> So, uh, people say, "Well, who's this
guy? Who's that guy? Who's this guy?"
These are the philanthropists that help
us out and and I I acknowledge them by
putting their name on the papers that I
publish just to let them know that we're
so appreciative of the of what they're
doing to allow us to continue to do the
research here at Boston College.
>> I love it. And we're not a medical
school, so we're not yolked uh by big
the system is not part of our
institution. So I can do these kinds of
research and feel comfortable about
doing it.
>> I love that. Well, thank you so much for
coming back on. It's always a pleasure
to speak with you and I I just love your
passion and I'm so grateful, like I
said, for the work that you're doing
because you're laying the foundation for
when you know the change when when it's
ready. And I don't know when that's
going to be, but um I'm I'm just super
grateful for the work that you do. So,
thank you so much for being here. And if
people wanted to find you, how can they
find you?
>> Well, they email me at my Boston College
website, and I give them kits of
information. And I only ask for
donations only if the information I give
them helps them. It's I'm not asking any
money from anybody unless the stuff we
give them. It's and it's educational
information. It doesn't tell them what
to do or what they should or should not
do. It's educational information to make
them knowledgeable about what they have
and strategies that they would use and
of course discussing it with a
knowledgeable physician is the way to
move forward.
>> Perfect. Well, thank you so much. It's
been a pleasure to have you back on the
show. Thank you.
>> Well, thank you very much. It's been a
real pleasure to have you to be here.
>> Thank you for being here today. Please
enjoy a previous episode of Born to
Heal. [music] And if you found value in
our conversation, please subscribe and
share with someone who might benefit.
Have questions? Drop them in the YouTube
comments or message me on Instagram.
Links are in the episode description.
>> [music]